02506
*The material prepared for DTU Course 02509, High-Performance Computing for Analysis of Experimental 3D Imaging Data, by Vedrana A Dahl, March 2023.*

# Week 6, Porosity

Relevant topics:
- Materials and tissues: porous, fibrous and laminar.
- Analysis requiring a precise segmentation, analysis robust to segmentation quality, and segmentation-free analysis.
- Loading data: bytes, bites, bit depth, bit ratio, downsampling (important for data downloaded from qim repository, e.g. hourglas data).
- Segmentation pipeline: the use of gaussian filtering, median filtering and moprhological oparations for segmentation.
- Unmixing volume histogram.
- Distance transform, watershed transform.
- Connected component analysis (algorithm).
- Various statistics to be extracted from connected components.
- Local thickness.
- Statistics to be extracted from local thickness.
- Fitting models to data: lognormal distribution.
- Visualization of results.
- Coding best practice: testing code line for line, degubbing.


## Exercise 1, focus: connected component analysis 
Notebook:
- [02509_porosity_cement](https://github.com/vedranaa/teaching-notebooks/blob/main/02509_porosity_cement.ipynb), for easy acces you can also open the notebook in Google colab using thish [link](https://colab.research.google.com/github/vedranaa/teaching-notebooks/blob/main/02509_porosity_cement.ipynb).

## Exericse 2, focus: local thickness
Notebook:

<hr>

*Additinal material (fully optional)*

The notebook on porosoty analysis is placed in the repository [https://github.com/vedranaa/teaching-notebooks](https://github.com/vedranaa/teaching-notebooks) where I collect various notebooks used for teaching. You may find other notebooks usefull. If you have experience with programming in Python, you can clone or download the repository and run the notebooks on your machine or on the DTU G-bar cluster. For some of the notebooks, you will probaby need to make small modifications. For example, mounting google drive will require modification, and you will need to install all modules the code uses. You are encouraged to try the code on your own data.

If you have no experience in programming, the easiest (less steep learning curve) is to run the notebooks from google colab.  For this, you only need a google account. For many notebooks I write a direct link which opens the notebook in Colab. If the direct link is not provided, you can open the notebook in Colab by looking at the notebook http address, for example `https://github.com/vedranaa/teaching-notebooks/blob/main/<notebook_name>.ipynb` and modifying it to 
`https://colab.research.google.com/github/vedranaa/teaching-notebooks/blob/main/<notebook_name>.ipynb`.


